# AWS IoT Greengrass for the Renesas R-Car H3 and Automotive Grade Linux

You may perform the build steps on an EC2 instance, copy the image
locally, and then flash the MicroSD locally.  The steps in this
tutorial expects you are working on a local workstation.

The majority of the steps were gleaned from [Building for Supported
Renesas
Boards](https://docs.automotivelinux.org/en/master/#0_Getting_Started/2_Building_AGL_Image/5_3_RCar_Gen_3/)
in the AGL documentation.  We repeat specific steps here to
demonstrate the **exact** steps used and where `meta-aws` was inserted
to the build procedure so you can take it into account when you build
your own.

**NOTE**: We are building with multimedia features that you might not
want to use and this will be called out during the procedure.

## Preparation

You will need to complete all preparation steps to complete all the
sections in this tutorial successfully.

1. Perform all workstation preparation steps as defined in the Yocto
   Mega Manual.
2. An [AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/free) and an [AWS Identity
   and Access Management (IAM)](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) with
   authorization to run the [IoT Greengrass
   Tutorial](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/greengrass/latest/developerguide/gg-gs.html)
   in the context of your logged in [IAM
   User](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_identity-management.html).

## Prepare, invoke, and flash the build

Due to the size of this build, the build environment was defined in
the AWS Cloud using a `c5.18xlarge` instance type.  Remember that in
the AWS Cloud you pay for what you use, so to be thrifty consider
stopping or terminating your instance after performing the build
tasks.

1. Launch the EC2 instance with the Ubuntu 18.04 AMI.
2. Login to the EC2 instance with `ssh` and prepare system updates.
   
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get -y upgrade
   ```
3. In the EC2 instance terminal, perform steps on the [Downloading AGL
   Software](https://docs.automotivelinux.org/en/master/#0_Getting_Started/2_Building_AGL_Image/2_Downloading_AGL_Software/)
   page.
   
   The command line steps we used are here.  Please reference the
   documentation if you would like an explanation of steps.
   
   ```bash
   export AGL_TOP=$HOME/AGL
   echo 'export AGL_TOP=$HOME/AGL' >> $HOME/.bashrc
   mkdir -p $AGL_TOP
   
   mkdir -p $HOME/bin
   export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH
   echo 'export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH' >> $HOME/.bashrc
   curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > $HOME/bin/repo
   chmod a+x $HOME/bin/repo
   ```
   We will be using the Jumping Jellyfish release since it aligns with
   the Yocto Project **dunfell** LTS release.

   ```bash
   cd $AGL_TOP
   mkdir jellyfish
   cd jellyfish
   repo init -b jellyfish -m jellyfish_10.0.0.xml -u https://gerrit.automotivelinux.org/gerrit/AGL/AGL-repo
   repo sync
   ```

5. Now that we have the basics setup, there are some Renesas specific
   parts to organize.  On your local workstation, download the Renesas
   proprietary drivers by following the download instructions in the
   section [Downloading Proprietary
   Drivers](https://docs.automotivelinux.org/en/master/#0_Getting_Started/2_Building_AGL_Image/5_3_RCar_Gen_3/#1-downloading-proprietary-drivers).
   
   To identify the drivers you will need, invoke this command within
   the EC2 build ennvironment.

   ```bash
   grep -rn ZIP_.= $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/meta-agl/meta-agl-bsp/meta-rcar-gen3/scripts/setup_mm_packages.sh
   ```
   At the time of writing, the command output:
   
   ```text
   3:ZIP_1="R-Car_Gen3_Series_Evaluation_Software_Package_for_Linux-weston8-20191206.zip"
   4:ZIP_2="R-Car_Gen3_Series_Evaluation_Software_Package_of_Linux_Drivers-weston8-20191021.zip"
   ```

   Which are the v3.21.0 payloads.

   Please follow the rest of the steps to download from Renesas to
   your workstation (in this case it is for YP3.1 Dunfell), upload to
   the EC2 instance, and then configure.
   
   We did not try the non-MMP v4.1.0 version.

   From your workstation, upload the files. Replace the 'x' characters
   with real values according to your situation.
   
   ```bash
    scp -i ~/.ssh/xxx.pem ~/Downloads/R-Car*.zip ubuntu@xx.xxx.xxx.xxx:
   ```
   
   This is how we handled the placement of the files:
   
   ```bash
   ssh -i ~/.ssh/xxx.pem ubuntu@xx.xxx.xxx.xxx:
   mkdir XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR
   mv R*zip XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR
   export XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR=$HOME/XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR
   chmod a+x $XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR/*.zip
   
   ```

4. In our build, we will be building for the AGL telematics demo in
meta-agl-telematics-demo. To set this up easily for the R-Car,
initialize the build environment with the new `aglsetup.sh` utility.
Its full use is described in the [Initializing Your Build Environment](https://docs.automotivelinux.org/en/master/#0_Getting_Started/2_Building_AGL_Image/3_Initializing_Your_Build_Environment/)
section of the AGL documentation.

   ```bash
   cd $AGL_TOP/jellyfish
   source meta-agl/scripts/aglsetup.sh \
       -m h3ulcb \
       -b h3ulcb \
       agl-demo agl-devel

   cd $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/bsp/meta-renesas
   sh meta-rcar-gen3/docs/sample/copyscript/copy_evaproprietary_softwares.sh -f ${XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR}
   ```

5. At this point, the base image is configured but we need to add AWS
   IoT Greengrass.
   
   ```bash
   cd $AGL_TOP/jellyfish
   git clone -b dunfell https://github.com/aws/meta-aws
   bitbake-layers add-layer $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/meta-aws
   ```
6. Edit the passwd and group file in meta-agl-profile-core to overcome
   https://github.com/aws/meta-aws/issues/75 

7. Add the following to local.conf by invoking this command.
   
   ```bash
   echo "IMAGE_INSTALL_append = \"greengrass openssh ntp\"" >> \
    $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/h3ulcb/conf/local.conf
   echo "MACHINE_FEATURES_append = \" multimedia\"" >> $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/h3ulcb/conf/local.conf
   echo "DISTRO_FEATURES_append = \" use_eva_pkg"\" >> $AGL_TOP/jellyfish/h3ulcb/conf/local.conf
   ```
   
8. Invoke the build.

   ```bash
   bitbake agl-demo-platform
   ```

## Go build solutions

Your image with IoT Greengrass is now up and running.  What's next?

When you go through the [IoT Greengrass
Tutorial](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/greengrass/latest/developerguide/gg-gs.html),
Do not run the Quick Start or Module 1.  You will need to follow the
[Configure AWS IoT Greengrass on AWS
IoT](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/greengrass/latest/developerguide/gg-config.html)
chapter to initialize your account for IoT Greengrass, create your
Greengrass Group, and then apply the `config.json` and credentials to
the target device.


Â© 2020, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
